Okay.
Hello, folks.
I ended up getting tied up with some
client work today, but um
I figured I'd at least do a short stream
on one of the open source things that I
can do. Uh
I got a message.
Where is it?
This is a PR
Okay. So, what we're going to have to do
here, I believe,
check out
I forgot to switch to stream view.
Hey, convert.
Nope, not yet. I might watch it on
stream tomorrow. We'll see.
I will watch it though.
That would be awesome if you did.
I know that they're using it in their
latest uh their comma stuff.
I mean, he's making vastly more money
than I'm making with this stuff. can
very easily sponsor um like few hundred
bucks makes a big difference to Ray.
Artillery MS are pointed 300.
That's okay. That's kind of my fault for
um not setting the policy. I think if
starting Puffer 4, it will be bug fixes
only
to the current uh the current major.
I'm going to have to like handle
everything merging from both versions.
What?
Powered by AI,
right?
doesn't show me my own sub thing, but we
did announce um
I probably shouldn't have done this on a
day where I have a bunch of posts, so I
will like I'll make this announcement at
a better time, but I did launch this
today.
Okay, cool.
Go check this PR.
This is fine.
Fine.
And then he loosened this
Let me think.
[__] merge this and we'll figure it
out.
[__] is Yes.
It's funny.
Was it nimi?
I like blind.
That's so funny.
Oops.
asentric.
I was doing some client stuff.
any
four days ago.
I don't know what the heck this was.
Oh,
I Okay.
Are you
If this works.
So sleepy Okay.
Tons of stuff on axe.
I don't watch the thing.
Cool. So, we got some stuff PR
Man, I love [__] code that never [__]
works.
God damn.
What is this?
Oh my god. How did they have it this
slow?
No, dude.
What the [__] man?
was in the right place.
Because you're an idiot is why.
How many times have you talked to him in
person?
guy's like one of the most like
clearcut nononsense
like pure technically minded guys I've
ever met.
Wasn't just in the right place at the
right time. He made it the right place
at the right time. Dude,
you should have seen Open AI in like
2019.
I swear I went from there to MIT and I
was like, "What the [__] are all of
these chuckle [__] doing? This like
looks like an entire place of morons
after being at Open AI." Not the same
place anymore, mind you. There's no way
to keep that talent density, I don't
believe. Uh, and scale 10x, but like
I mean, that's the time they were doing
Dota. That's the time it was GPT
originally. That was the time they were
doing like Rubik's Cube stuff with the
robotics. I mean, there was like truly
revolutionary stuff there, man. Anilia
was leading it.
Not like leading it in a [__]
manager sense either.
I haven't listened to the podcast. I'll
probably watch it on stream tomorrow.
I'm curious as to what happened
because actually like I I read some of
the stuff from him lately and it's like
I wasn't entirely surprised. He was
like, "Yeah, I kind of just expected the
company to not really care if Alman got
ousted." And everybody goes, "Oh, that's
crazy." Like, not really. I mean, I'd
take Ilia over Altman any day from back
then. Easiest decision of my life.
He has all the computer needs.
I do hope he publishes, you know, I
really didn't get much of the safety
stuff from him um back at the time. So,
I don't know what the whole thing is
with that or what his particular plan
is. I mean, the read I have is he
basically just wants to be left the [__]
alone to do research and like see if he
comes up with something crazy cuz like
the whole let's everybody race to scale
[__] is boring, right?
It's good that you have people taking
counter bets. What I'm doing is in some
way taking a counter bet right to that.
I go train. I posted earlier today. I
train way more data. I use like way more
data than all these language models do
on one server with the models that I
run.
Like a fundamentally different scaling
direction, which is exciting.
I got the uh the guy who uh wrote this
package replying to some messages.
safety is getting AI to value sentience.
I have to listen. I'm not going to
comment on it until I have the whole
thing. The thing that nobody ever damn
well explains about um the AI safety
thing. Actually, the only person who's
ever given me a reasonable answer, which
is like an inverse answer, was uh
Keller. I basically asked him, he's the
Muan guy, and I happened to meet him in
SF. So, I said, "Hey, know what the" and
actually there was like an anthropic guy
there, there was a thinking machines guy
there, there's an Nvidia guy there, a
meta guy. So, it's like somebody from
all the companies just said, "Hey, what
the [__] is the deal with all this
safety [__] Like, everybody's making
models. China's making models. Doesn't
matter if one of you makes a safe model
under any definition if everybody else
just doesn't give a [__] So what's the
point? And Keller said, "Well, I mean,
if these models are going to be used by
businesses, they have to be aligned.
They have to be safe in some sense in
order to be useful." They said, "Oh,
well, that's a product issue, not a
we're saving humanity safety issue,
right?" He says, "Yeah." Like, "Okay,
cool. That I'll buy, right?
If you you have to answer that at least.
Where's the
branch?
32.
What the [__]
too many matrix my That's
What is this trolling, dude?
Am I being trolled? Hold it.
One is a leader board.
validation error.
Nope.
Builder.instance Instance one count.
This is why I never touch this repo,
man. I really want to help these guys,
but it's like
every time I open it, it's half a dozen
errors and slower than last Time.
No, this isn't PyTorch.
It's a pretty cool environment and like
a cool project, but it's just like
so many bugs.
Uh,
where is it?
If they've updated the graphics, it's
this thing.
It's a cool project. It's just buggy in
an order of magnitude too slow right
now.
and try to figure this one out in the
meantime.
about this.
Oh yeah. So, this is a kind of a fun
plot, guys. This is the uh the default
like flat network.
So, it turns out you can actually do
pretty well without like any sort of
network structure at all.
Makes you wonder.
Not leak email.
the worst version of Nur. It's
different, but at the moment it's just
slow.
No flat as in um no con encoder convert
still has the same recurrent cells.
What happens if I set this to 32?
lower
expected.
700k params, dude. Yeah.
I don't know. Let's see what it is. But
like it's found on other stuff.
Yeah. This has the synchronizes back in
it. So this is correct.
the hell.
Oh jeez. Yeah. So, this ENV apparently
just like actually does worse until you
run it for a billion steps. Lovely.
I'm trying to think if there's literally
anything I can even do to help them.
Maybe
I guess I can at least try default. Some
Hey, bet.
I'm just going to wait for a little bit
and um to see if these guys come up with
anything.
But if not, like there's not much I can
do to help him. I guess with this feed,
I can actually still do something.
But this 80% endbound is just like,
what's that mean? Maybe I get this to
run 500k if we're lucky on a puffer box.
No, convert. The problem is not 300k.
The problem is 300k with 16 cores.
You see, but I can't scale it for them
because the six GPU box has 32 cores.
Solution to bottleneck
everything C. Yeah, this is a C++ M.
It's just really unoptimized.
This is why I tell people to not write
C++. It's really easy to write bad C++.
Like see much more puts it in your face
when you're writing stupid slow code.
This is not pixels bet. This is
literally state.
Why not evaluate less often? Because
this is what gathers the data. So this
is RL. So in order to gather the data
for training, you run eval. Maybe I
should call this roll out instead of
evaluate.
But yeah, this is where your data comes
from. So um the ENV is just slow.
And pretty much whenever your NV is slow
on like something like this, it's a grid
world type thing, it's a pure
engineering failure because there's no
excuse for it to be this slow.
dude, it doesn't matter if I profile
this environment because it's so much
code. Like, I can't help them.
I think it was like at least 14,000 the
last time I checked.
It should be like three.
It's this. It probably has
I mean realistically this is probably
less complex than neural MMO, right?
Maybe about the same. I don't know.
It feels more arbitrary in a sense cuz
like it's pretty much like a clearcut
exponentially spaced
exploration problem more than anything.
There's definitely depending on the
configuration, there's a room to
introduce a lot more artificial
difficulty, but then there are also
configurations of this that let you do
some pretty cool experiments in science.
Yeah, but I wouldn't recommend messing
with it. Bet you're not going to have
fun.
I think it was just a PR.
No, they just PR a binding. I'm not
going to let them PR 14K. lines.
Future M are dude, M's are not the
bottleneck if you write code that
doesn't suck.
Why are environments going to be the
bottleneck in the future of puffer?
Like, I wrote brain dead stupid code and
neural MMO runs 1.5 million steps per
second per core.
speed of light.
I don't think it'll be that optimized by
then.
I actually do have I am actually kind of
thinking about that though. convert is
like I mean speed of light is just
basically can you get 100 100 MFU
really the physics Thanks.
May as well do um
to 40
current change.
But that's what we already do, man.
We're already redoing M and C. Like,
we're already
like fine.
strong arm Elon into getting riot.
Yeah,
I'd still need to have um we'd have to
scale some stuff.
Training on League would be pretty
awesome.
What is the Oh, I missed some messages.
Hang on.
What is the true bottleneck for puffer?
At the moment, it's mostly um just like
overhead of small fiddly operations and
then some stuff with vectorization.
I'm aiming to resolve it for the most
part in 40. It's just a lot of like a
lot a lot of low-level dev. Um,
I think we should be able to hit 10
million steps per second, though. I
think I'm going to take another look at
CUDA graphs as well
to clean I I can't clean this up bad.
I'd have to rewrite it. It would take me
less time to rewrite it than to try to
understand their code.
Glory to the puffer.
You made some reply to uh the Carmarmac
bindings. Yeah, you could you can
totally do rust if you want. I just
don't um because I had to pick a
language, right, to do all of our
default environments in and I chose C.
Rust doesn't really give you very much
for sim. Like memory safety in this case
is kind of a joke. Um and it just kind
of gets in your way.
So, it's not really a like if you like
rust, I guess you could add bindings and
you could keep stuff performant. There's
just not really a big need to.
I really do not like Rust.
It's just like why
why should I complicate the way that I
write code to get memory safety which is
a feature that I don't want and also
make compile times longer like
it's not going to be faster than the C
code because it's Rust like you can make
the C code faster in several languages
by doing SIMD and by doing like you know
any sorts of optimizations but like
realistically we're not bottlenecked by
simulation speed
on almost any of our environments.
Uh we are bottlenecked by vectorization
overhead which I'm fixing in 40. We are
bottlenecked by some host device
transfer stuff which I'm at least
mitigating in 40. We're bottlenecked by
CUDA launch kernels which I have already
mitigated in 40 but probably we're going
to have to do CUDA graphs or like
something else or more kernel fusions.
There are a number of issues, none of
which Rust solves,
find it more elegant. I find C so much
nicer. It's just such an easy, simple
language. Like I can literally show my C
environment code to any first year
undergrad in CS and they'll understand
it. Like once they've taken their first
systems course, they will understand my
code. Heck, they'll understand my code
better than they'll understand the stuff
in their textbook. It's just that
simple. And you can write like an
entire,
you know, cutting edge RL sim in exactly
that style, which is so refreshing.
No, Rust isn't faster than C. It can get
to be about the same speed as C.
About it.
I don't know. Rust kind of reminds me of
Arch where it's like a community of
people that really care about tech that
are focusing on entirely the wrong
thing.
like Arch being a rolling dro for god
knows what reason and then uh Russ like
deciding that memory safety is the
source of all evils.
We're secure.
No,
I will say I actually think Arch is um
if you are new like if you're just like
new to Linux for instance, playing
around with a few dros is a great way to
learn just some basics,
just command line basics, bunch of
utilities, how to figure things out,
right? A little bit about package
management. It's a great thing to play
with. And then eventually one day, you
know, you'll do an update without
checking what's in it. You'll break your
system and you'll say, "Oh, that was
dumb. Why the [__] did I have a rolling
dro?
The right of passage
What?
Yeah. And the price of that is it gets
in your way of it gets in the way of the
code you're writing.
I'd way rather just turn on address
sanitizer while I'm developing write
really simple code have my compiler
which is still fast
um tell me where there are out of bounds
rights or you know leaking memory or
anything like that. Fix it. see that the
compile is clean or the run of the
compile is clean. And then there you go.
I have like I can just compile it
without that stuff on and I have a fast
build of simple code
especially in RL like simplicity is so
important and C is such a simple
language. It's just such a nice pairing.
Honestly though, I can build a ton of
stuff in C and it's just it's so chill.
Like I built a whole visualizer
like you'll see this constellation
visualizer I'm releasing in 40 like a a
full you know a full visual like a full
like uh multi,000 experiment dashboard
with a ton of features and things for
understanding lots of data and wrote it
in C and it was like the same amount of
code that it took me to write it in
Python pretty much.
Actually honestly a good chunk of it was
easier in C. There were a couple rough
spots, but they generally felt better
because I had like more ways to fix
them. Whereas in Python, it was me just
figuring out why the [__] the dumb
library I was using didn't work.
All
right, I have this thing ready.
This works.
I mean, I had an arc set up. I ran it
for like four years. I spent a whole
bunch of time like fiddling with and
configuring things.
It's literally my high school website.
Look at this thing.
This was so dumb. I ran it in virtual
box.
This I was totally wrong about.
Yeah, this one was totally wrong. This
is lit. These are all true.
This is running net hack, the arch
thing, and random other stuff. Elsa
Mixer
literally running net hack though. Like
17 probably at this time.
Uh,
I think that's pretty much it though,
guys,
because
I thought I was going to do some other
stuff, but I thought, oh yeah, you know,
I have put this off for a while. I'll go
like do some stuff. But as usual, it's
broken. So,
at least I got it into 40, so we can
start doing stuff with it.
Yeah, I think that's what we'll do. And
I'll just chill. I think I'll just go
chill for the rest of I haven't watched
it yet. FBR. I'm probably going to watch
it on stream tomorrow. Um I think
tomorrow I will
I'm going to just take some rest tonight
and then tomorrow we will get back to
optimization.
But we're not going to do kernel stuff
tomorrow. I think what we're going to do
is we're going to try to get the
vectorzation to be in a good spot
and
I'm going to actually understand
threading correctly.
Like surprisingly I've never had to do
threading because of all the Python dev.
Like threads in Python are kind of a
joke. Um
ton of multipprocessing. Never done
threading though. But there's some
different synchronization primitives to
look at. Not that complicated.
We'll do that tomorrow. And then I think
on Thanksgiving
I think for Thanksgiving I'm going to
stream uh Tiny
and we're going to take a look at
Tinyrad. I'm going to try to write some
stuff and we're going to see how it
goes.
That's the plan.
I don't know. The client stuff and then
like all the C++ and the CUDA just
exhaust me. So, I'll get some rest.
I'll do my last bench set real quick
though first. I'll answer any quick
questions.
I was super lazy today, but I got to at
the very least get my bench sets in on
Tuesday.
Well,
that's 210 for three sets of eight
today.
That's something at least.
Buy more GPUs and bench those.
You know, honestly, if Tiny Grad
actually solves all my problems, I think
I'm going to just have to buy one of
their uh
[sighs and gasps]
Yeah, I think I'll have to buy one of
these just on principle.
If they actually fix all my problems,
I'd be very surprised. Hey, Dan.
I was considering getting one of these
anyways.
How do you hear about
the tiny boxes are literally right
right there? You see the two white boxes
and then beneath them are all the single
GPU desktops.
The brown and black boxes, those are
just the cardboard boxes for the
desktops if I have to move them.
Eniggling with own server.
Yeah. Yeah, you can save money by
building. Um, if you want to save money,
you can save money by building it
yourself. It's actually kind of hard.
You kind of need to know what you're
doing for like many GPU builds like
that. Um,
it's not worth my time to build it
myself, though, dude. I just order them.
Well, that's what I thought. And then I
ended up spending three days fighting
with uh they just each of them had one
bad power cable that I had to replace.
That drove me nuts. But I bought the
reverbs. I bought like the the reverb
V1s because I wanted 6x490s instead of
4x590s.
So yeah,
box six is back, dude. I told you box
six is back. Yeah, it's there, dude.
Do it over for a tiny box. Yeah,
honestly the thing that I I made a
mistake on is I should have just gotten
the Pro one. The form factor of the Tiny
Box, it sounds like a great idea, but
it's really not.
Um,
the Pro form factor is way better. Wait,
they got this down to 10,000.
The [__]
Oh, are these cheaper cards?
Are these like
Oh, this is 4X
RTX790.
Wait, RX
970.
Good cards.
Oh, no. Those are cheap card. Yeah.
Okay.
Nah.
I don't the form factor for me is like
this is just better.
I don't need the VRAM, but I don't want
to deal with AMD either unless we end up
using Tiny and then Yay. But I think
honestly from a business perspective
like Tiny would have to be way better
than PyTorch because then I basically
have to sell clients on like it's going
to be uh it's going to be in tiny trust
me right the way harder Well,
this looks nice though.
And I got a rack. You see behind me? I
think you can see it right It's like
right behind the posts here.
There is a rack back there. I have a
full rack in my room so I can add it.
Oh yeah, absolutely man. I don't I don't
sell my work to non-technical people,
right? Like where Puffer is now. I don't
try to convince people that they need
RL. It's just like my clients are people
who know that they want RL or know that
they want custom SIMs and that I'm the
best place to come for it, right?
That's how the business works. Speaking
of which, the last thing I'll mention
here is uh we did launch one product
today.
I wish I could show you on here because
it doesn't actually let me show you.
Maybe it does here.
Yeah. So, we added a subscription. It's
a $200 sub. It's for businesses. It's
not for individuals.
Um, you know, I'm not trying to monetize
any of my contributors or any of my
viewers or anything like that. This is
for businesses
and it just gives you access to a uh
subscriber only DM chat. So, the idea is
that you can get entry level support for
200 bucks a month instead of for a
minimum $10,000 a month. So, this is an
experiment. We're going to see if people
like it. We're going to see if we get a
few companies signed up. Um,
yeah.
And I figure it's like a nice option as
well for companies that have like used
our services and don't want to have like
a really big ongoing contract. Just get
like a few messages here and there as
well.
Oh,
we'll see how this goes. This is
experimental, right? If we start getting
companies signed up and then some of
them start wanting like more dedicated
services based on the advice they get
there, then I'll keep this and this will
be great. If we only get a couple people
to sign up and they take way too much of
my time, then you know, we'll just uh
we'll refund like whatever the current
month portion is and
uh and we'll like say, you know what,
actually we need to have bigger support
packages than that. But I think that
this could work and I think this would
just be a really nice entry point
because frankly
I don't think we're going to offer the
$10,000 priority packages for much
longer. Um we're really looking to sign
larger custom simulation deals at this
point. And for the amount of time that
it takes me and the amount of my focus
that it takes away from open source to
be signing like a 10k priority deal, I'd
rather just not make 10k and have more
time and like have more focus.
So,
I figured that this would just be like a
nice little entry point.
Hey, feel like I remember seeing a
ceiling.
Keep up the good work. Thank you.
It's been a completely different
experience since graduating, man. It's
uh RL has gone so so so far now and it's
mainly because I have not had the
constraints I had in academia and I can
do as much engineering as I need to do
without having paper constraints.
I think pretty much another year or two
and we should be like the field should
be set like it will just work out of the
box.
for pretty decently complex problems
across a wide range of topics.
Uh Kinvert Softmax develops uh that meta
environment.
I've done some stuff around the uh the
project there.
Sutton and Carmarmac doing actual things
with RL.
Uh yeah, they are bet. I disagree very
heavily with their approach. Um
I think that if Carmarmac took the
approach that I'm taking right now with
Puffer, he would just run over me
completely.
But the fact that it's Sutton and
Carmarmac, and it's not like those two
in one person means that they're not
taking the approach that I'm taking. And
you know, if nobody else is going to do
it, I'm gonna do it.
CarMax's awesome. Of course. I think the
proudest thing I have on Twitter is that
he retweeted my uh programming in ML
article and said that was good advice.
Yeah, they have they uh they actually
put out some cool stuff that they
released some code, too.
They did like the uh playing Atari with
a physical joystick.
Mhm.
I was just kind of killing some time
here to see if I heard back from um
either of the softmax guys.
No biggie. We'll see if there's anything
tomorrow. Um I'm going to call it so I
can just get some rest.
Felt kind of burnt out. Need to uh
recharge a bit because there's tomorrow
we have a lot to do. Um, I want to be
fresh for the vectorzation tomorrow.
That's going to be kind of hard. We're
going to try to do uh we're going to try
to do a threaded environment
vectorzation with double buffering and
uh the big one is going to be buffered
host device transfers and device host
transfers of actions. A lot of
buffering.
For anyone who's new around here, my
stuff's all here. It's all open
source.puffer.ai.
Feed this puffer star. He likes stars.
It helps me out a lot. Right here, you
want to get involved, we got a Discord.
It's discord.gg/puffer.
And you can follow me on X for more
content.
I want to get some rest.